alex i got my ielts scores here they are
so i got uh reading nine yes fantastic
listening nine woohoo
speaking nine woo writing
6.5 you should go for a remark what's a
remark
so what what is remarking well you've
got your score
report and you've missed something by
0.5 or maybe one
band and you're sure that you can get
higher so you can send
your score results back and ask ielts to
remark it
okay now should i just should i send it
off for reading and listening
no no in reading and listening the
scores are right or wrong
there's no gray area but listening no
writing and speaking they're human
marked and there is
possibly a degree of error so just
writing and speaking you should send off
okay
should i do it should i do it
well if you know the criteria very well
and you are absolutely confident that
you met the criteria
for seven or eight whatever it is you're
aiming for yeah
and you're pretty close like half a band
yep then yeah i would recommend
going for it all right so if i feel like
i didn't screw it up
then i should probably do it yeah
exactly i mean that's no guarantee
but okay yeah if you are pretty sure
that you met
all of the criteria in everything yeah
yeah
it's possible it will go up okay how do
i do it
this part's easy just go to the website
or get in touch with the place where you
took the exam the actual test center
and they'll have a form and you can
download the form print it out fill it
in
send it off and you do have to pay
though oh
okay how much does it cost
it varies from country to country but
here in australia it's 176
176 macaroons some macaroons macaroons
smackers smacker that's a lot now what
happens
if they actually change my score do i
get my money back
yes the good news is if your score goes
up money comes back
but if your score stays the same that's
it for your money is
the gamble of a lifetime yeah it is it
is a risk
so you do need to be sure about it or be
confident
now is it the same for the computer
delivered ielts and the
paper-based ielts yes
okay great uh how long does it take to
get
the inquiry on results back it generally
takes
from a few days to a few weeks if it's
more than three weeks they recommend
getting in touch with them
okay right okay now here's the big
question which is
what are my chances
what are your chances that they will
increase your
result usually it's about writing so my
story is this i've taken the ielts
five times three of those times i
actually sent my scores back to be
remarked
three times they actually increased the
score twice they increased it by one
band score and once they increased it by
0.5
what's your experience well the
one time i did the real test i also
sent my results back and i went up half
a band
yours was interesting because you
actually got an eight and then you sent
it back and they increased it to 8.5
right
so one band going up by one band is
quite a huge
difference how we how did you know that
your score was not right
uh because when i wrote the test and
wrote my essay and wrote my writing task
one
i was convinced that i had written it
really well
i was convinced that i had answered the
question and the essay completely that
i'd used full grammatical range
grammatical accuracy vocabulary range
in other words i know the criteria so
then when i got my results back i was
like
something ain't right here so that's why
i sent it back
yeah but i would suggest that um
sometimes we get emails at e2 language
with people like should i challenge my
score
and i can just tell from reading the
email that i can see grammatical errors
and stuff in there that
maybe you shouldn't so it's a tricky one
so what should i do next so
[Music]
my recommendation to you is if you're
really confident and you're confident in
your english language skills and you
think
something isn't right then sure send it
back but if you're not
if you're unsure you may want to get
some feedback first
it'll be less expensive less of a gamble
and i think will actually provide you
with the information you need to then
determine whether you send it back or
whether you actually go and sit the test
again so
how can they get feedback on e2 language
a few different ways one you could take
the mock test
yep full computer delivered test with
feedback not just with scores so we
really
rake through your writing and speaking
and point out
every little thing that you can improve
the other way is to
submit work for feedback um through
packages that we have like
writing intensive package bronze silver
gold nice
and you can just add on feedback to any
package that you have with e2 language
as well yeah i think i think the
the trickiest bit about ielts writing is
you may be making this error like
grammatical range or you might be
writing slightly off topic and you
yourself are unaware of this you think
you're doing a fabulous job but in fact
that's the thing that we will identify
for you
so what are you going to do i'm going to
send my scores
back
you